The Joe Rogan experience. Do you sit down and write,
like on a piece of paper or do you write while you're putting music?
No, I've no. Yeah. Um, for me, writing is a visual process visual.
Yes. And I can't, if I write it, it down,
it becomes too dimensional and I I've never,
I I've written lyrics that I thought were genius and actually they committed him
to paper and saw them and they be, and they it's like,
they dissolved from this three dimensional beauty to like, oh,
it's two dimensional garbage. It's bizarre. I know.
And it's not always like reasonable, but it's my process at this point.
How's it visual? Um, it's if you really listen to my songs, they're like,
photograph, like it's like flipping through a ographic album almost.
If you really listen to like what I'm doing, it's like very visual.
I see the pictures I equate it to like, did you ever watch the show Oz? Sure.
Yeah. Remember the poet guy who, who, who was illiterate,
but he drew pictures and that's how he recited his poems from pictures.
It's similar. It's like,
but it's kind of reverse it's in my brain mean it's it's there. So.
You're seeing your visual in, in terms of like the, the stories of you painting,
like the guy outside.
The liquor store or the imagery. Yes. Or like, you know,
a song like black Jesus where it's like just kind of cultural,
like pop culture reference after reference,
leading down a path of just like stream of consciousness,
pop culture references, you know what I mean? I'll go on tangents.
You know what I mean? But it'll be all within an energy inside the brain.
You know what I mean? Like once I commit them, I even like, after the fact,
like when you turn in like music to like entities that shows or whatever,
they want to know the lyrics so they can know if they should put it on air or
this, you know, depends on whatever, if it's public their,
but even when it comes to that, I have to have,
I have to like recite it to somebody and have 'em type it. I can't it'll,
it'll just kind of taint it to me. Wow. That's interesting. See it written down,
so it's all you in my hand, you know what I mean? And, and another hand,
it doesn't bother me, but like for me to com to do it, it,
it like breaks a barrier of some sort and that
everything vaporizes <laugh>.
So do you, uh, how do you capture the, the various beats?
Do you record it as you're coming up with it? There's.
A, there's a few different ways. It happens for me. Like, you know,
if I'm doing like a hip hop-ish or hip pure hip hop project, I'll,
there'll be a beat involved always for, you know, I mean,
there'll be somebody to have a track and we'll be like, oh, that's the track.
We're gonna commit to let's and we'll write lyrics to it.
And it'll be just kinda, like I said, I'll,
I'll drive around a lot with rap stuff and just let it bump and see what words
starts popping up. I like wordplay and bouncing wordplay, but it,
it can't just be wordplay for the sake of it.
It has to like tie into some sort of like idea, um,
when it comes to a song, it's usually I,
I string together some simple chord progression and,
and start and, and see. And, and if I, once I see something, I really like,
it'll just, like I said,
pictures will start coming up and you kind of just try to describe the picture a
little bit. And sometimes you,
you come across poetry when you're describing the picture and you be like,
that's good. <laugh>, you know what I mean? There's a lot of like, nah,
that's not good. Nah, that's not good. There's a lot of that.
There's a lot of that. It's.
It seems like a mirror process to stand up comedy, like a mirror process.
Except.
I get a whole hold on to mine. Even if they record it and make a special,
I still can play mine. And that's, that's what I always was like, man,
comedians are just, that's a little di it's a different commitment because like,
you're, you're bringing, you're like,
it's almost like a child you're raising that you have to watch the life of it.
Finish in a weird way. I'm not, you know what I mean?
We both have children that's yeah. Extreme, but I know what you're saying,
but like you're,
you're taking this idea from kind of garbagey idea that, you know,
there's a premise there. Yeah.
And then like over a series of shows or nights, or maybe months,
you, you find it, you know,
with different audiences and then you got it and you,
you get to rock it for maybe six, good. In all these places.
And then you go and record it and make that special if you're lucky enough to be
on that level. Yeah. You know, it's almost like I almost envy the come. I,
I wonder if you guys ever envy the comic who quite doesn't quite have that yet.
So he can, like, he has this, you know,
be of material that he hasn't had the trash yet. You know what I mean? Is.
It he's talked to Roy Wood about that. It was just on right before you,
he that's one of the things that he said that you shouldn't do TV for like 10
years. Like don't do, it's like, can't have a.
Catalog, man. People.
Come up with that idea that like the first time you do anything that people get
to see, like be hardened, like be a polished samurai of standup,
you know? But I disagree. I say, let, 'em see everything. Let, 'em see all the,
all the stuff that sucks. All the terrible jokes who cares. Just keep going.
Especially.
If the progression's there, then it's like, oh, you see what happened.
Happened? Yeah. Just keep going. And it's good for everybody. See,
people don't want to think.
You're just like someone who just figured it out instantly. No,
it's good to see these sucked. It's good for everybody.
It might be bad for your ego,
but it's good for you when your ego get takes a hit. It's always good.
It's always good. It puts everything in perspective. You know,
anything like as an artist too,
like the thing that gets in your way more than anything is your ego. Right?
The thing that gets in, in the way more than anything is for sure,
the way you view yourself, I wouldn't the way you want people to view you.
I wouldn't produce my own. Right. Occurr until like maybe two albums ago,
because I felt like if I'd made it through an album without being
like seriously challenged, I didn't make the best record I could. Mm.
And then just being involved with a bunch of really seriously good producers,
I learned to challenge myself and, and even the records I've produced for.
So if there's other guys involved producing with me that are,
that I know are gonna be the ones, if that's some, Hey, that sucked. Right.
You know what I mean? You can eat that guy around or, or even a guy just to, to,
to challenge even how committed you are to certain ideas. You know what I mean?
How much time.
Do you spend going over? Like when you have a song and you're like,
I think, I think this song is solid. Do you,
do you outside of singing the song,
do you ever go over the song and ponder, like what,
what you're saying or how you're saying it? Like,
how do you cuz your stuff is so it's so interesting because you're, you're,
you're telling these stories of your experiences in these songs in a,
in a lot of 'em and you're also having fun and you're also talking,
you're having a good time with them as well. But when you decide, okay,
this one is gonna be recorded like this, how do you make that conclusion.
For me? It's uh, uh, uh, again, if there's not like, cuz I,
I can also, even if I'm not doing necessarily a straight rap song,
there's times when I get a track from a producer that I just love the track and
I'll build something around that. Other than that, it'll again,
start with a guitar and I'll either, um,
create a, a very, uh,
rudimentary drum beat and lay down the guitar and maybe a vocal.
And I have a very unique voice, you know,
it's not like it's so there between the guitar and the voice tones start
appearing that like resemble other instruments to me,
like it almost starts telling you what to do. Oh, that sounds,
it sounds I could hear a roads in there. I, you know,
the baseline should do that. You know, you can hear that.
And the guys I surround myself with are beasts that hear the same, you know,
they know, oh yeah, this, I hear that. Let's do, you know, it's,
you can start a song, will tell you what to do with it. You know,
if you really listen to it, I believe that because I, I kind of, uh, you know,
one of the things Santana told me, you know, I always held onto is like,
you know, cause,
and I've experienced this once or twice where I've written very similar songs to
friends of mine or people I know that was like, whoa, like maybe not sounding,
but like the ideal. Oh wow. I wrote something that was exactly.
And he said like, you know,
we're all just antenna that are like catching energies and and like
bringing in. And we're, you know, bringing, making something outta that energy.
And sometime people catch that same energy and similar things happen, you know?
And uh, so I always look at, at a doubt, I, I,
I look at my ideas like this also because I don't write them down.
I equate it to like my children like this,
like my ideas are like little animals that are wild
and I, I see them and I think they're amazing and I want to, and so I,
I I'll play a song till I know it so well,
it has to stick around it. Like I,
I train it to stay and if it stays the next morning,
that's this kind of answers your question the next day. If I write,
if I'm on to some and I write a song, I'll sing it 200 times.
If I get it close to dun and then I'll go to bed. Mm.
And then if it's there in the morning in the, in the same form,
I'll record it. If it's gone, I didn't, it wasn't mine.
And that's happened a lot.
Dude. That's a brave move. Yeah. I have the opposite cowardss approach.
Yeah. Yeah. If I get an idea, I'll run away from everybody, with my,
my fingers in my ears and write it down.
<Laugh> now here, what I said, I'll sing it 200 times. You know what I mean?
So if ive done it 200 times and I don't wake up and know it it's
trash. I write everything down. It's not supposed to happen.
I have the total opposite approach in terms of writing comedy. I.
Write, how many specials have you made in your life?
I never counted. Rough, rough guess it's like eight or nine.
All right. That's how many albums I've done in almost 30 years. Yeah.
You know what I mean? So it's like, I'm not turning them out like that. I,
you know, and I don't, again, because of that,
there's not like this crazy archive of garbage that's gonna be released when I'm
dead. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, it's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen.
It's not gonna happen. Cuz I,
even songs that I start to record if I get halfway through with it and I'm like,
not even satisfied with it, it gets erased. Yeah. You know what I mean?
There's a few things out there that, that I,
that I probably wouldn't have released, but they're not,
they're like from house of pain days. Yeah. And they're not bad.
I'm just like they weren't for, they didn't have a, a purpose.
I think it's good for people to see bad from great artists.
<laugh> I do. I think it's good. It's it's good for.
Everybody. I have. I mean, I'm the guy that I'll up,
live and talk about it for five minutes at a show <laugh> and be like, yo,
at least, you know, it's not on tape. Right. I'll be like, that's real.
You know? And I, you know, I'm with that, I'm just like, it's my process.
It's like, just the way I do. Like, you know, again also I think I has Stewart.
I have some really hardhardcore producers, like DJ mugs and my man, Dante Ross,
these were do, it would be like that was garbage. Do it again.
<laugh> it's for so long that that's, I'm a,
the first time now is gonna be decent. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's like,
I gotta push myself for it to be better than decent, you know?
You know what I mean? Yeah. No, I get it. Otherwise I just clip.
It. Yeah. Well that's the only way you could be as productive as you are.
You have a, you have a welloied approach, you know.
But I don't put out a lot of music.
I yeah. But, but when I know for a fact that when you put something out,
you're happy about it.
Oh yeah. I'm I'm, I'm, I'm I'm content. That's when you put it out content.
With it, that's a, you're in a great position, man.
That you can kind of sort of decide what to do. And when do it writing.
Three of the biggest songs in the nineties with what it's like jump around and
put your lights on. Well, that was 2000, I think so, but that little period,
you know, and I, I wrote those songs, jump around with mugs,
what it's like and put your lights on. Totally on my own. That,
that provided me, me with something that I cherish.
Like some people cherish private jet rides,
which is I can do whatever the I want and still live
pretty decent, not super rich guy or anything, but like better than average.
No, you got a good, good life. Take care of my family,
but creatively I could do whatever the I want. Yeah, no you,
and it's a beautiful thing, man. That's I, the older I get,
like I'm on my whole new. My slogan is it. I'm 50 man.
<laugh> that's my new dog. I'm on. Like, I don't, you ain't gonna rattle me,
man. I'm 50. I don't even care. How's that if you're I like there,
you GOM. So just trying to have fun. Live my life, go home,
hug my kids. Yes. And know that nobody with them in school.
And they had a great day. And then my universe was complete. Yeah.
I.